>> So I'm gonna make another
file here inside of my bin and
this is going to just
be called like check or
we'll just do touch.
Check number and
we'll do a CH plus x of check number and
then we're going to vi check number and
then we'll do our little hash bang
at the top slash bin slash bash.
Okay and then we're going to say if.
Dollar sign 1.
Space is a little bit more
readable is greater than 10 then.
Echo greater than 10.
Else if that's how you write
an else if is elif, write that.
We can write another test in here.
Dollar sign one is less
than ten then echo.
Less than 10.
And then finally you can do else, echo.
Equals 10.
And then again,
always at the end, i I like that.
Okay, so now I can write quit here.
And I can say, check.
Number 10.
All right, so check number.
So if I put 10 it says, equals 10
if I put 11 it's greater than 10.
And if I put 9, it is less than 10.
So that's how you do if elsif else and
then you always have to
finish with the ephi.
Okay, let's do one more.
We'll make another file here.
We're going to call it smiley.
So touch smiley and
we're going to chmod+x smiley and
then we're going to vi on smiley.
I'm going to do a case
statement really quick.
So we're going to say case, $1.
This is like a switch
statement in JavaScript.
And I have to put my bin bash in there.
/bin/bash, also kind of a tip here.
I don't know how to do this.
I'm sure there's a special
way to do this with the vi.
But if I just right-click quit and
then reopen again.
It'll use this to interpret,
okay, this is a bash file.
I will give you bash highlighting now.
I'm sure someone in the chat
is immediately gonna say,
this is how you do it with vi.
That's fine.
Anyway, case $1 in, and then here.
It's gonna just be a matching statement.
So if the user input smile here in quotes,
I'm gonna put the string
that it's looking for and
then you put an end parenthesis to
signify this is the first case.
And I'm going to say echo.
Our little smiley face there and
then the way that
you end a particular cases
to semi colons like that.
Okay, we'll do the next one here,
sad echo,
Sad face and then we'll do laugh.
And I have more of these in my notes but
you get the point, echo and okay.
And in order to finish that is you do and
then the last one that's good to
know is like if it doesn't match any of
these to put the wildcard at the end.
You say this will only get hit.
If it doesn't match anything else,
then you say I don't know that one yet.
Okay.
And then again,
the way that you finish a case statement
is with case backwards which is esac,
esac, okay?
And then we'll write- quit there and
then we can run smiley with laugh and
I'll put that
smiley smile and
smile something else, right?
And it's gonna say, oops,
you need to put smiley.
I don't know that one yet.
What did I mess up in there?
I didn't put an echo.
Right there echo.
There you go,
then it says it don't know that one yet.
But you can see that that block code
wasn't being executed on the previous
ones it wasn't erroring out,
because they're being executed.
So the switch statements here
can be get pretty fancy and
I'm not gonna really get into it too much.
But suffice it like you now have the tools
that if you need to get more fancy with
switch statements,
you know how to Google that.
>> Is there a concept of Local
scope with bash scripts?
>> There is.
So anything that I set inside of my bash
script is not going to be exported outside
of that bash script,
unless you explicitly say export this and
then that will be exported to
the global scope like the global scope.
Meaning that it will
survive beyond the bash
script as far as like
scoping within like blocks.
I don't actually know what the block
scope of bash scripting is.
My intuition tells me that there's no
block scope, but you'd have to look it up.
I don't actually know.
Do I think programming with bash
is a different mind set than
programming with like a different
programming language?
I guess, I mean, programming is
programming is programming and
I would loop bash in as a traditional
programming language, but
I wouldn't like go write like a web server
in bash like it's totally possible.
It's absolutely possible
to be able to do that.
I use bash much more as a utilitarian
language like I'm trying to do a one off
scripts and I wanted to do one thing, and
I wanted to be done with it after that.
So in that sense,
I'm probably a little less
diligent about making super clean code.
It's much more procedural, I think that's
probably one of the biggest things
about it is when I write my node code,
I tend more towards a functional style.
I tend to have a lot more functions and
classes, and objects and things like that.
Whereas bash, it's very much reads this
line, then this line, then this line,
then this line, then this line.
And anything that's much
more complicated than that,
I will probably reach for note or
I'll probably reach for Python.
Whereas I treat bash much more
procedurally and I think that's common,
it's not necessarily you
have to do it that way.
So one thing I'm not gonna show you, but
is possible with bash scripting is you
can write functions with bash scripts.
The reason why I'm not showing is like I
just don't anytime that I need to write
functions, I'm getting into
something a bit more complicated.
And I would probably reach for Python,
because Python also is very good at
doing the similar things to bash.
But I know plenty of people
that would write that in bash.
So that's probably a pretty roundabout
answer of like the way that I treat bash,
yes, but there's no reason
that it has to be that way.
It's good question.